action it's coming up to that time of
year we're now in early October and the
leaves are starting to fall off the
trees we're getting some colder nights
you're Venus flytrap will definitely be
showing signs of dying back to the
winter this is where some of the older
summer leaves and certainly the flower
stalks if you've left them on would have
died back now it's a good really quite
important to pick these pieces off
certainly if you're keeping them in a
greenhouse or humid environment and this
is to prevent botrytis or gray mold
starting on the dead growth and getting
into the living plants so what I do
first of all move the flower stalks you
could use little pair of scissors for
this but I actually just like to pull it
off and if you give it a little bit of
flex and a little tug you'll find that
it breaks off quite cleanly it takes a
bit of practice and you really got to do
it with some confidence
if you can't half-heartedly do it the
danger is you'll pull half your plants
out of the pots the other one I go
then I proceeded to go along to pull or
cut the old leaves off you can see these
are the older ones really dry and brown
they just pull off quite easily to be
sure that you're not actually get to
pull your plant out of the pot while
you're doing it you can actually use
thumb and forefinger just to put some
downward pressure on the plant at the
same time as you just cut the trap with
your fingernails that way you're not
going to be pulling your plant has of
the pot something come away really
easily I tend to remove anything at this
time of year that's got a little bit of
vermin die back in it because certainly
next week I'd have to go around and do
it again it really depends on how often
you want to do this so there we are the
after all the old leaves have been
removed I'll find that come December
I'll have to go and do that again and I
would expect all these longer leaves to
have died off and just the shorter ones
to be to remain and all the goodness
from the older leaves will be stored in
the bulb under the ground